Here is the version of
the algorithm we're going to use.
Just like hill climbing,
we're going to iterate with
simulated annealing, looking for
points close to our current position
that might have an improved value.
However, we're going to select our next
position randomly from the points in
the region near us.
If a new position is better
than our current position,
we're going to take it.
However, if it isn't better, we're still
going to take it with a probability of
e to the delta E divided by T,
where T is our temperature.
>> So we start with a high T,
do we change it later on?
>> Yes,
in the algorithm we have a schedule for
what the temperature should be.
And we'll start with T being very high.
And when T is high, say close to
infinity, delta E over T goes to 0.
No matter what the delta E is,
even if it's negative.
So e to 0 is 1.
So in the beginning,
we have a lot of random motion as we
take all the random
positions offered to us.
No matter how bad the new position is.
>> I see, just like in real annealing,
when the temperature is very high,
the particle's jumping around
a lot in the beginning.
So that if the particle gets stuck
in a local maximum instead, it has
the ability to leave that peak, ignoring
that it is going the wrong way and
instead end up at a different
part of the graph.
Because the temperature is high,
the next point that's fixed randomly
can make it move down the slope.
Given enough time the randomness will
ensure we get off this particular hill
and hit the hill with
the global maximum instead.
>> Precisely.
>> But how does it converge?
Won't we continue doing
this random walk forever?
>> Well, let's first take a look at
the opposite situation were T is near 0.
We never want T to actually be 0 because
that will give us an undefined answer.
So for illustration purposes
let's say T is equal to 0.01.
We already said that if the purposed
new random position improves our score,
we're going to take it.
If it stays the same delta E is 0.
Or if it gets worse,
delta E is negative.
Let's say delta E here is -1.
Now we have e to the -1 over 0.01.
Which is the same as e to the -100.
Which a very small number.
So we have almost no chance of taking
that suggested new random position.
Instead, we'll keep generating
new random positions
until we get one that improves e.
>> Then, when T is small,
we basically have normal hill climbing
>> Correct.
>> So we'll just slowly change T from
very large, where we're going to move
over the graph randomly, to very small,
where we climb to the nearest peak.
>> Yep.
And if we happen to get stuck at
a plateau along the way, like here,
delta E is 0.
But that makes the equation
e to the 0 again.
So that the algorithm will take
the new random position instead.
>> That will happen no matter what T is.
>> And eventually, we'll random walk off
the plateau, back to someplace where
there's a positive gradient and
continue going up to the maximum.
>> Exactly, the great thing about
simulated annealing is that it's
guaranteed to converge to the global
maximum if we start T high and
decrease it slowly enough.